The internet, the link that connects the world that we live in today. In the current times, we are all interconnected, the world knows everything thats going on, from any place 
at any time. It wasn't always like that though. On January 1, 1983, ARPANET (Advanced Research Projects Agency Network) established a new communications protocal called Transfer
Control Protocal/Internetwork Protocol (TCP/IP). This feat in technology is often popularized as the official "birth of the internet". Though this might be the "birth" of the internet. 
The internet still had a lot of history that led to this point and had a lot of growing pains. The internet is the work of a multitude of STEM fields who reached achievements that no one 
had ever thought was possible. 

Long before any of this technology existed. A few scientists had already thought about a "wireless world communication system." Nikola Tesla trifled with this idea in the early 1900s, he never
got to finish his work because of a mysterious lab fire on March 13th, 1895. In the 1920s, Harry Nyquiest and Ralph Hartley worked on theoretical information theory. Not long after, Claude Shannon,
developed a theoretical film to understand fundamental keys to telecommunications technology. This was one of the three fundamental developments, as well as MOS transistor technology
developed by Mohamed Atalla and Dawon Kahng. Accompanied by the breakthrough in laser technology on December 1958. As technology was evolving, computer communication was 
evolving. At this point the "point to point" communication system was limited, it had several flaws and introduced many issues with connecting respective physical networks to form one logical
network. Until Donald Davies (National Physical Laboratory, UK) created a local area network based on packet switching. He proposed a rapid store and forward network that dissects
messages (packets) into arbitrary packets, so that decisions are made per-packet. This was a big achievement that would lead to the NPL network and ARPANET. The NPL network
was devised by Donald Davies and his team at National Physical Laboratory, UK. In October 1967, Larry Roberts presented a proposal for the "ARPA net", based on Wesley Clarks's
technology to create a message switching network. At the ACM conference, Roger Scantlebury presented Donald Davie's technology and Paul Baran's work at RAND. Roberts refined the
ARPANET design by integrating packet switching. This increased the communication speed from 2.4kbps to a whopping 50kbps. The NPL local network and APRANET were the first ever 
two networks in the whole world to employ the use of packet switching. On October 29, 1969 the first ever ARPANET link was established between the University of California, Los Angeles and 
Stanford Research Institute. 

"We set up a telephone connection between us and the guys at SRI ...", Kleinrock ... said in an interview: "We typed the L and we asked on the phone,

"Do you see the L?"
"Yes, we see the L," came the response.
We typed the O, and we asked, "Do you see the O."
"Yes, we see the O."
Then we typed the G, and the system crashed ...

Yet a revolution had begun" ...


The revolutionary events that unfolded on October 29th, 1969 would change the world forever. 

Years after ARPA had created TCP/IP and been running. ARPA wasn't meant to run a mass communications facility, so in July 1975, they handed it to the U.S. Military. The technology would be
used for a lot of NASA's projects and other government agencies. Nasa eventually created NSI, the first multiprotocol wide area network. NSI connected over 20,000 scientist across the globe.
In 1986, the NSF created NSFNET, a 56 kbits/s backbone for supercomuting centers. NSFNET also provided regional research and educational networks in the United States. During this time, 
NSFNET has multiple upgrades and has multiple partnerships including IBM, MCI, and the State of Michigan. The term "internet" was used as a short form of "internetworking". The term was
use for the large and global TCP/IP network, which we now call, "the internet". In 1989 Tim Berners-Lee invented not only the first web server, but the first ever web browser called the 
WorldWideWeb. Many others were soon developed (Internet exlporer, Firefox, Google Chrome, etc) and led to the boom of popularity in the 1990s. 

As of today, the World Wide Web is the primary tool for billions of people and has changed so many peoples lives. We've allowed people to make a living off of social media platforms and more and
more people are discovering technology. Not only has the internet changed peoples lives, it has provided so much knowledge. Before the internet, you had to go to a library to get knowledge, 
and if you didn't live in a big city, you were out of luck. Because the library might not have the books you're looking for. The internet has provided people with colllege degrees, a way to
gain more knowlege, a way to connect with friends and family members, and even meet new people. The internet is arguably one of the biggest technological advancements of all time. 
It wasn't easy, it took dedication of hundreds of scientists to overcome problems and create the thing we call the Internet. Without the internet, who knows what the world would look like today.

 

